I forgot maybe one of the most important ones my
name is Mandy Russo I'm the executive director
with the Whistler Institute for those of you
I have not met thank you for coming uh The
Whistler Institute if you're not familiar we bring
educational programming and thought provoking
speaker series to Whistler um we wouldn't be able
to do this without our funders and I wanted to
recognize the mlan mccog foundation Bob and Sue
Adams the Resort Municipality of Whistler and the
lightburn family fund who um directed by way of
Steve Bailey provided some funding this year and
we greatly appreciate that tonight's event is
part of our Global Perspective speaker series
where we Source experts and leaders in their field
to come here and open our minds Whistler is Iconic
for our adventure tourism we have a thriving arts
and culture scene and the Whistler Institute is
proud to be bringing educ into that mix a bit of
housekeeping I encourage you to take a moment to
reach into your pockets and your bags to make
sure your phone is on silent um just in case
for those that aren't familiar with the venue
restrooms are downstairs uh to the right there
is a photographer on site the lovely Hannah
Ferguson she'll be floating around and uh the
event is being recorded and will be available
for rewatching and sharing with your friends
tonight we're very fortunate to have digital
strategist Chris Krug with us Chris will be
sharing mind-bending examples of AI what's going
on in BC's Tech sector and how this work is being
applied globally at 7 o'cl we'll have a Q&A and uh
our board Vice chair David Cronin will be closing
out our session so about Chris as founder and
CEO of future proofs creatives Chris is all about
democratizing creativity EMP emping communities
and championing sustainability Chris's camera has
been his passport to documenting Global movements
and capturing the essence of change makers for
over two decades now he's diving deep into the AI
Revolution exploring how we can harness its power
to amplify creativity rather than replace it and
in this digital era where Tech often overshadow
Shadows Humanity Chris is on a mission to flip
the script and I think it was also humanized
to share that Chris Came To Us by way of Mr Mayor
Jack Crompton who went to summer camp with Chris
so thank you so much and I'll welcome Chris to
the [Applause] stage check check hello everybody
um thank you very much Mandy for the introduction
and um to Whistler Institute for having me here uh
it is nice to to see some friendly faces from the
past here like Jack uh we actually went to Trinity
Western University together and we were young
life leaders and we coached a basketball team
together back in like 1995 I think um so it's
nice to be back in your presence and stuff and
I see a lot of other friendly faces around too
so welcome um I am I've been publishing online
since the 90s I started building websites to put
myself through University then I was a part of
the social media Revolution and that led me into
being able to travel the world with a camera in
my hand and I got to work for National Geographic
and rolling stone and really I was teaching other
artists and creatives how to empower themselves
digitally how to get their work online at a time
where people were afraid if they put their work
online people would steal it and that they would
you know lose revenue and we've actually learned
the opposite is true the more stuff you can put
out there and the farther it can go you know the
more presents and followers you'll have and the
bigger your business will grow so that was a
really exciting time and that like I said was
leading me around the world making photos and
pandemic rolled around I had a place on gallano
and all my work and travel dried up right away
and I was farming pandemic farming over there
growing vegetables and had some animals when um
in the fall of 2022 AI reached its tendril out to
grasp me there on um gallano Island and really
just kind of like woke me all the way back up
it brought me back into connection with a lot of
people I had been connected with at the earlier
parts of my life and stuff and it um I started
sleeping less was just really captivated by it
all I was experimenting with it all the time
and I started a online server and asked all my
friends to join and together we embarked Upon
A Learning Journey that leads us like right up
into this very moment so I'm going to unpack
a whole bunch of stuff for you guys but I run
a company and I run a community and a nonprofit
that does some meetups around the AI space and I'm
just uh I run I have a show on CBC on the Early
Edition with Stephen Quinn called sandboxing AI
with Chris Krug where we talked about the cultural
and societal issues of some of this stuff and so
that's a little bit of way of introduction of me
and I got a little acknowledgement I want to read
myself how you guys doing tonight everyone good
all right cool yeah thanks I'm a little bit
nervous obviously um I've gotten a lot of support
I I put a lot of time into this presentation I'm
really excited to share with you um and I got a
lot of support from my community I reached out
asking people what I want what I should talk about
and I got this message this morning from a GU
called Prine prle which some of you guys
may know he said have fun with the crowd
and Whistler tonight noted it's taking place at
the Mari Young art center Mar was a mentor of
mine a thorough and humble gentleman with a keen
sense of business and how to invest in culture
and Community his wife Mary was equally gracious
and unpretentious Mory boldly financed my landing
on the west coast after I was invited in ceremony
to bring my being here it was true kulana as the
Hawaiian might refer to it or Dharma as my yoga
culture heritage would know it at the same time
I was on loan to the feds from Doctors Without
Borders and quit all that to be a Wilderness
guide and Whistler working alongside First
Nations elders and youth of all Nations this
program was called rediscovery myy and I would go
on long walks together he unfortunately passed a
few years later however his transmission and his
spark around how to conduct oneself in this world
remain in my work to this day Mory seldom put his
name on anything this building and others are like
Legacy acts of his family and those many people
who his lives he influenced profoundly anyway I
thought you might be interested in the beingness
of the space where you're tonight be well you
didn't not hear this from me but blessings for
having the fortitude to fulfill your kolana Dharma
looking forward to connecting with you in this
living Legacy across space and time exploring the
dances elegantly as we experience Manifest Destiny
down south in colonial Shenanigans here in Canada
so I just wanted to acknowledge the space we're
in the Whistler Institute and all the things that
happened to bring us here okay I got a lot of
ground to cover let's go first I want to start
by um diving into all the amazing stuff that's
going on in BC when it comes to Ai and I'm going
to take you on a journey and I want you to set
aside technical things we're going to talk some
philosophy tonight I'm going to show you some
very interesting far out stuff and um I want to
reframe some of this as not that this is coming
you know BC is poised to lead the creative AI
future in our entertainment industry film studios
uh all the the the amazing things that make up our
creative digital economy here in BC and so I want
to show you a perspective tonight about a creative
empowerment and not that these things are coming
for our jobs we're going to steal you know what
what makes us human so I want to focus on some of
that stuff what makes us human I'm going to talk
about empathy I'm going to talk about intuition
and critical thinking and Crea ity and some stuff
like that I'm going to focus on um four labs and
projects and people companies here in BC that are
doing really amazing stuff the first one is called
The Meta creation Lab at the school of interactive
Arts and Technology at Simon Frasier University
the second is a company called volumetric capture
systems that's inventing very futuristic hardware
and software to make immersive storytelling
possible in ways that we've just never seen
before I'm going to tell you the story of
nervonic AI That's putting Consciousness into AIS
as a matter of safety which sounds scary but I'm
going to unpack that for you and explain why it
might be a good idea in some cases and finally I'm
going to tell you the story of the Vancouver AI
Community meetups which is a thousanders community
in Vancouver that meets up monthly and shares
ideas and Explorations learnings around Ai and
is building a collaborative Community out of which
all sorts of companies and projects are are SP
all right who knows what the Las Vegas sphere is
all right who's been there cool was it good come
tell me about it afterwards this guy Tobias
so first of all the very sphere is the most
amazing immersive experience on the planet
right now and then there's this DJ called an
who's been doing these crazy shows and so he got
a residency at the Spheres well this guy from BC
went to Vancouver film school started a company in
British Columbia he recently did built technology
for this New Year's show that I'm about to show
you and tell you about so let us that's Las Vegas
[Music]
you can turn it up
so Tobias and his company volum
camera system built like this
proprietary portable geodesic Buckminster
Fuller Dome full of cameras it's got like
258k cameras in it and they use machine
learning and AI to feed all the like
terabytes and terabytes of realtime data that's
being created inside this Dome into a a model that
builds a 3D environment of a space that doesn't
exist then they build virtual cameras in this
space and are able to fly around it and then he
didn't even get a chance to visit the Spheres
before he went there so he built the environment
in an apple Vision Pro and mapped all 250 of these
cameras via this machine learning AI model onto
this dome in his VR transferred it to these guys
and um and specifically he got to do the
climactic shots of the whole thing which come on
buddy he
is you can see the tiny little people at the
bottom there this is from inside the door
sence exp
virt nothing like this has ever
existed or impossible just imagine
being in there reality distorting perspective
[Music]
creating things like this requires Hardware
that never existed pipelines and processes
and works that never existed software that
never existed and the ways we're going to
use it are just like still emerging we
don't even know yet and so in this way
it's it's creating this whole new immersive
storytelling industry um that's like weeks old
next thing I'm going to show you is a research
lab at Simon Frasier University the school of
interactive art and Technology this place has
been around for 25 years this is Philipe pasque a
Parisian french guy that runs a studio one of the
problems that us artists have ethically with AI is
that it's been trained on all the stolen work of
all mankind without our permission or consent with
no compensation no visibility truly even into what
they took or how they're using it and yet having
done that they've dropped us off these amazing
futuristic intelligences and consciousnesses that
we get to choose how to understand and interact
with and it doesn't mean that's the only way they
can ever be in fact it's up to us users to define
the Futures that we want and to call like these
companies and Technologies into building the stuff
that we want to use that fits with the values that
us humans have about this world and how it should
work so these guys are they built some tools that
allow artists to train small language models on
only our data sets so I used their tool I was a
photographer for 20 years I fed all my life's work
into a blank slate of a machine Consciousness that
had never seen a human face before they never seen
anything before and I trained it for thousands and
thousands of epochs on these photos asking
it to choose make different decisions which
ones were which and and it started to develop
senses of eyes and noses and ears and stuff
um this is what the tool
looks like that they built
this is the data set that I trained it on these
portraits that I had made crossprocessed analog
film from like 25 years of traveling and
seeing faces I standardized the data sets
by putting all their eyes on the same plane
and the same distance apart so the computer
could kind of make sense and see what it
was trying to what I was trying to say to
it so that's what it training data was then using
this tool from SFU I was able to walk through the
dream space of the machine the 512 Dimension
Vector database where all this training data
lives where all these it's not like a datab
base that where a face is retrieved from it
it's all these constituent Parts in an indefinite
dimension of ears and noses and eyes or whatever
and all these faces are faces that I found in
its dream space in it you know before prompting
it like before giving it a prompt I I use this
visualization tool that SFU built to walk through
a path of its brain and see different things that
emerged yeah so are they of assembled assembled
is almost right they're generated uh they're
not retrieved they're created based on what it
thinks we look like based on what I showed it we
look like and that's why you see a lot of texture
in these because a lot of them were these film
photos and these crossprocessed ones and so it
while these may not be perfect faces yet it is
definitely my photographic style it's definitely
my fingerprint and we're just getting started
and so I I've own all the data that goes into
it and I own all the data that comes out of it
it's mine um and so this gets around a lot of
the ethical concerns that people have and
you can use it for illustration you could
use it for video people are using it for music
training models on all the music they've ever
written that now understands their compositional
style not to replace it and make new songs with
them but to give them new Tools in their palette
to to do New Creations that have never existed
before a few of my favorite kind of weird
things that came out along the way while I
was training things it doesn't know about sex
or gender it just knows what I show it and so
it's morphing different parts back and forth
trying to find similarities and commonalities
and it's very so this is what this computer
thinks we look like based on what I should
the next thing I want to show you is nirvanic
consciousness systems this is Suzanne gildert
she started two companies in BC that are huge
one's called d-wave it's a Quantum Computing
company another one's called Sanctuary AI it's our
federal government just invested $150 million in
their robotics program it's going to be a big year
for robots because in in the tech world we talk
about like the tech tree where certain advanced
unlock other advances or to get to this far off
Advance you got to complete all these other things
first there's a lot going on simultaneously right
now like all this GPT open AI stuff they're able
to download it into the brain of what used to be a
dumb robot people are off making robots people
are off making AI there's been some successes
now they can bring them together and now these
robots can learn things by watching them the
robots already got eyeballs and they already
got hands but to train them to use those hands
was pretty complicated well now they just have
to watch a human do something one or two times
and they start to because they got the AI in the
brain now and they start to be able to learn and
train themselves so I'm going to let um Suzanne
talk a little about our work in our own words
here for a second we don't know actually that's
the second one I think we absolutely have to
understand Consciousness and what it is so people
tend to fall into one or two camps they say oh AI
will never be conscious in that case what we're
building is increasingly intelligent more and more
powerful tools that then can be used by others
so others control them others decide the morality
and the goals of those systems so you can ask if
that's what you want the other um option is you
think um AI will just become conscious suddenly
emergently in a way that we don't understand
and that's even more scary maybe because then
we won't know what's going on we won't know
what kind of Consciousness it has and I think
for us Consciousness is everything we are like
it's everything we experience it's how we relate
to each other it's everything we feel so I think
we just need more research into it we need to be
able to understand it so then we can carefully
put it in if and when we choose to in AI so these
concepts are pretty far out but they're not super
technical so I want you to um follow with me for
a second so Suzanne's interested in Consciousness
and she's interested in Quantum Computing and
she thinks there's a connection between those two
things she thinks that much in the same way that
um Quantum situations all the possibilities are
possible Until You observe the thing in which
case the whole situation collapses down and
becomes this reality that's kind of the quantum
theory of Consciousness she thinks that that can
be now put onto a chip and put into computers
such that it could be utilized by AIS for
certain things like this this is the answer yet
there's some tantalizing evidence but say we're
right I want to stress like this is a scientific
hypothesis with testing but say the people the
scientists that are on the side of Consciousness
potentially being Quantum have access to quantum
computers now where we can actually start
building it into AI what does this mean I just
want to bring it back to this driving analogy
now so when the self-driving car has driven
thousands and thousands of miles the driving
analogy in this case is we've all driven back
and forth up and down the Sea to Sky sometimes
you don't remember the drive at all other times
something scary happens all your systems come
online you're hyperfocus hyper attention making
emergency decisions and then when things are safe
you kind of go back to normal driving that's kind
of what she's talking about here with AI most
of the time they'll operate like they do now
but when something weird happens uh they'll be
able to switch into a more Consciousness mode
where they can make decisions based on the unique
things in that environment in the route is always
the same and the weather conditions never vary
they are doing it it completely unconsciously
completely in an automated way it'll be perfect
but what happens if something changes if something
is truly new and then suddenly something really
unexpected happens like a tornado starts in front
of you the AI is not going to do very well so
although people might think it's scary when
they hear the phrase conscious AI I want to argue
that there's actually a safety argument for making
AI conscious in certain situations where it
absolutely has to be present it's interacting
in complex Dynamic social situations then you
can turn the Consciousness module up a little
bit pretty far out there a lot more than just
like using chat [Music] gbt and we don't oops
I'm completely enamored with her work right
now and so is the rest of the world she lives
in Vancouver she's from British Columbia like
I said she started two huge companies already
I think they're both worth a billion dollars
this is her new little AI Consciousness dogbot
it understands human emotions and um and and can
be empathetic it's something that she uses to run
her test code on and to start to experiment with
these ideas in her lab she took this down to San
Francisco last week to raise some money and
uh it went viral this is one of the main uh
AI ethics researchers out there there it snapped
a photo of her dog which is down below the fold
there and it went crazy The Whole World's paying
attention to the work that she's doing up here in
BC the fourth little tale here I want to tell
you about how BC is already in a leadership
position when it comes to creative AI is
our thriving little Vancouver AI Meetup
Community uh in January 2023 2024 I started
hosting monthly meetups in my studio at the
Vancouver B Alley's Art Space space in Olympic
Village they quickly outgrew the space after a
few months and we have had over a thousand
members join our events over the last year
they're um a little bit different than what
a lot of people would expect for Tech meetups
and events I'm going to just show you a little
video of our December event we had a a guy here
I'm really proud of called Peter Lucas Jones
from New Zealand he's Time magazine's number
77 most influential AI thought leader in the world
and I'm going to like him talk a little bit more
about his work here but he came and visited
our event and gave a keynote last month oops
welcome to the December Vancouver AI
Community meet up you are the Vancouver AI
Community I know you're not
boring happy birthday to
you you sound so sleepy just take
so today I'm representing
the mation lab for Creative
AI if you were a bird what
kind of bird would you be
[Music]
we developed the first indigenous
language automatic speech
[Applause]
recognition dear futa there is still love
[Music] wec as a passionate connected group of
super technical Super Creative people that are
um sitting in a leadership position uh facing the
future but um let's face it uh Silicon Valley has
kind of an organic self- sustaining vibe to it
through all of its success over the years and BC
isn't exactly that we've got this really awesome
very consciously curated and tightly vertically
integrated digital economy where that's it's
come through strategic government Partnerships
things like tax credits and funding I ran into
a old friend tonight we know A lady called Linda
Brown who helped build the center for digital
media raised like $80 million in the mid 2000s
to build Master's diploma of digital media very
forward-thinking thing and there's a bunch of
schools like that that are pumping out worldclass
grat and there's these industry associations that
have built and defended the industry things like
tax credits lobbying for and receiving tax credits
it's resulted in we have 11 of the top 12 gaming
Studios with a headquarters in Vancouver we've
got all these um Hollywood North special effects
animation um gaming film uh that have moved here
and and it's you know the whole speculative real
estate condo apartment thing in Vancouver that's
coming from schools feeding Studios studios
protected by industry associations with tax
credits those people buying Apartments the newly
you know ytown or Olympic Village and the whole
thing works but it it it didn't happen by accident
and it's highly susceptible to fluctuations in its
system and what are we staring at right now like
you know most people think about jobs you know
job loss and replacement and I'm trying to tell
you there's there's new things coming as well and
we're right at the center of that but that's
we got some hard times to go through first um
generative AI isn't just like knocking at the
doors of these industries it's already like
sitting on their sofa and raiding the fridge
um a lot a lot of people aren't hiring Junior
animators special effects people game design
people right now a lot of those jobs are things
like take a senior designer's assets and turn it
into a web thing and a TV thing and another thing
it's not highly creative work it's production
work in the profession creative Industries and
these are the jobs that are uh at at threat
first and it keeps me up at night a little
bit as a whole economy as a whole system like
what are we going to do when 30% of the people in
Vancouver who had very fancy high-end jobs um you
know are trying to reinvent themselves at the same
time which is how I look at it I look at it as an
opportunity of growth and reinvention to continue
to grow and upskill become something new and and
that kind of um foreshadows some of the answers I
think like you know like if one piece falters
in this whole system if the studios shrink if
the grads can't find work the whole structure
could wobble so I'm calling on businesses on
government on investors on other people to really
step up right now and to um put their money where
their mouth is behind these industries that are
both world leaders but also slightly at risk like
we really can't bury our heads in the sand about
this we can either be like affected by it or we
can literally make the future we we can't let
the whole world Define what the future of the
creative Industries is all about without being
at the table and that requires doing research
having a vocabulary about this stuff having
connections Partnerships but also being supported
by institutions and people with vision inside
government other people I'm asking for investments
in up Skilling and retraining of workers people
are needing to be ready for AI um Centric jobs of
the future uh we need to reimagine the whole
education system I mean um there research is
coming out right now that like kids that use
AI tutors through Elementary and high school
move two orders of magnitude up the performance
charts like 25% better at the bottom end simply
by just having access to these tools and that's in
current class classro environments that's not even
really with having us us rethought the assignments
we're giving them the readings we're asking them
to do the curriculums or approach or any of that
stuff just with old system new tool two orders of
magnitude better for the worst student in the
classroom and what we're doing right now is
criminalizing our students instead we're using
AI detectors to find the cheaters well Brenda
Bailey Minister of Finance when she was minister
of innovation she was telling me Chris I've looked
into this stuff those AI detectors you know what
they're good at finding newcomers to Canada who've
used AI to get the language right inside their
stuff she's like it more often finds bias and
exposes like bias in the system than it does find
a cheater and what do we want to do turn all our
students into cheaters no we need to like find
new whole ways of thinking about education and
learning and skills and knowledge that take the
modern stuff into existence and that's like a
you know re overhauling all of education is pretty
big challenge you know um we need to do strategic
AI op option funded by the government in some
cases and find other ways of setting policy and
doing funding so that we're relevant and can take
our strong suits creativity Community grit the
natural environment the lifestyle we get to live
and turn that into a leadership position in the
future okay that's a bit of a practical look at
what's going on today some of the companies and
projects I'm interested in what do you guys think
of of those things pretty interesting yeah anyone
heard of nervonic before definitely check them
out Suzanne's got a lot of things there on on the
internet okay we're going to switch to a little
more philosophical part of things now where I
want to um you guys to think about your role in
BC's AI creative future what type of future you
want to live in and what type of relationship
you would like to have when it comes to AI
we're going to watch another little video I'm
going to ask you a question it's going to be
about work how you see work what's the purpose
of work anyway when the work doesn't need us
anymore I watched this podcast called vesh Patel
he's got really interesting thought leaders on
it this guy is far out who I'm about to show
you his name is GW he is an anonymous internet
researcher that has predicted everything that's
going on with artificial general intelligence
and the race towards superhuman Consciousness
he's well respected by all the people that are
making AGI right now because he's anonymous
he's represented here as a pseudonym bear with
it now that you know that AI is a thing that
is coming but basically what's your thinking
around how how you see your role in this
timeline and also what you're how you're
thinking about how to spend these next few years
yeah I've been thinking about that uh quite a lot
what what do I want to do you know um and what
would be useful to do I'm doing things now because
I want to do them um regardless of whether it will
be possible for an AI to do them in like 3 years I
I do something because I want to because I like it
you know I find it funny or whatever um or maybe I
think carefully about kind of just doing the human
part of it like laying out a proposal or something
um if you take seriously the idea of getting AGI
and just a few years you don't necessarily have
to implement stuff and do it yourself you you can
sketch out clearly like what you want and why it
would be good um and then how to do it and then
basically just wait for the better AGI to come
along and actually do it then right unless you
know there's some really compelling reason to
do it right now and pay the cost um in terms of
scarce time yeah but otherwise I I'm trying to
write more uh about what isn't recorded things
like preferences and and desires and evaluations
and judgments things that a an AI couldn't replace
even in principle the way I like to put it is that
the AI kind of can't eat ice cream for you right
it can't decide for you which kind of ice cream
you like um only you can do that and if anything
else did it would just be worthless basically um
because it's not your particular preference
and that's kind of the rubric for me right
like is this something that I want to do
regardless of any future AI because I enjoy
it or is it something where I'm doing only the
human part of it maybe and the AGI can later on
Do It um or is this write writing down something
that's Unwritten today um and that's helping kind
of the future AI versions of me so if it doesn't
fall under one of those three I've been trying to
basically like not do it um and if you look at it
that way I think many of the projects that people
do right now uh basically have like no lasting
value right they're they're doing things that they
don't enjoy um which which you know record nothing
Emeral kind of a value that couldn't be inferred
or generated later on and I think they're at best
kind of getting two or three years of utility out
of whatever they're doing before it could have
been done by an AI system wait your timeline for
when AI could write a word quality essay is 2
to three years I mean I have ideas about how to
make it possible um which might not require AI if
it kind of combined my entire Corpus but I think
many potential sa ideas are already basically
mostly done in my Corpus so you don't need to be
like super intelligent to pull it out but I mean
let's you know talk about AGI in general I think
the anthropic timeline of 2028 seems like a good
kind of personal planning starting point where
even if you're wrong you probably weren't going to
do a lot of projects within the next three years
anyway um so it's not like you really lost much
by instead just writing down the description you
can always kind of go back and do it yourself
later if you're wrong let's unpack this AI is
artificial general intelligence it's an AI That's
better at the all all things than humans there's a
lot of debate right now about whether we're there
not or yet they call it kind of like a jagged
frontier meaning that right now ai is better at
humans than some at some things other AIS are
better at humans at this particular thing or this
particular thing like playing chess or playing go
or doing other things but there's no AIS yet that
are better at all humans at all things but that's
what they're going for and they think they've
got it figured out and they're moving there fast
and so what they're talking about here is like
when AGI comes we're going to be able to speak
an idea into existence we'll be able to say build
me a technology company that specializes in camera
systems and it will deploy an HR department
that goes and hires soft you know uh AI software
engineers and then you know a finance department
that does accounting for them all AI agents that
spin up overnight while you sleep and drop your
company off for you in the morning this is is
the future that they're talking about we're not
there yet but he's saying you know the one guy's
asking the other guy let's assume you're right
AGI is going to be here in a couple years how
you going to use these last few years what are
going to be the last few things you do while
we're waiting around for AI to come and he's like
well pretty much I think I'm going to write I'm
going to get all my preferences out of me all
the things that are uniquely human choices what
kind of ice cream I like how I think about the
world values philosophy whatever because all the
other and then I'll just tell the AI to build
it when they get sufficiently good and if I'm
wrong about that it's no big deal anyway because
I've already got all these plans laid out for the
future anyway and most of the things that he
thinks we're building right now like companies
or projects or films or whatever are going to be
almost immediately superseded by that generation
of agis that come out and start overnight building
everybody's stuff so time for a little reflection
please pull out your phones or a pencil or
paper if you feel comfortable we're going
to take a few minutes and do some independent
thinking and writing here I'd like for you to
imagine us walking into this future together
and there's all the things that you do work
right now on the computer there's calendaring and
there's accounting and there's Communications and
there's making videos and gradually he's saying
we're going to hand over these things one by one
to the computers so I want you to think for a
minute what's like the last thing you think you
might hold on to before casting that off off as
well into computer land to do the work and in his
case it's writing about his preferences desires
hopes and dreams so I would like for you to answer
this question in writing for the next couple
minutes and then I'm G to ask if anyone wants to
share we can rock a little
of that background music if
you want come on pull out your phone Big Boss Man
spe
30 more seconds so I got time
to cover the rest of the ground
[Music]
okay let's do a little popcorn so we can get a
bunch of ideas out if possible who wants to speak
first just shout it out what what's something
you're going to hang on to Nature very good
thank you embodied things in general yeah you guys
should go on some runs together yeah parenting M
yeah that's a good one because that is going to
be able to be turned over to AIS they're going
to be able to feed your kids keep them safe
teach them stuff but you're going to keep it
because it means something to you that's a really
good answer by self- awareness I think of these
things as self-awareness bots in some ways they
know us better than we know ourselves we can feed
he's talking about his Corpus he's talking about
everything's ever written down in the computer
lands ever he's brought it back into a central
knowledge base where we can analyze it with AI
and be like extract the patterns of my last 30
years of writing listening to music yeah man
cooking Ro yeah you guys are getting close to
some of the things like I mean embodiment critical
thinking some other things preference expression
there's not the list of things that humans can
uniquely do is getting shorter and shorter okay
I got another clip for you my old buddy you wrote
an interesting comment about getting your work
into the llm training Corpus you wrote quote
there has never been a more vital Hing time
to write and I'm wondering whether you mean
that in the sense of you are going to be
this drop in the bucket that's steering
the shath one way or another or do you
mean it in the sense of making sure your
values and Persona persist somewhere
in Leon space I mean both um you know
by writing you were voting on the future of
the Shaga using some of the few currencies it
uh right like tokens that it has to predict
if wri you're kind of abdicating the future
or abdicating your role in it if you think it's
enough to just be a good citizen to vote for your
favorite politician you know to pick up litter and
recycle the future doesn't care about you there
are ways to influence the shagi more but not many
um and if you don't already occupy a handful of
key roles or work at a frontier lab your influence
basically rounds off to zero uh I think far more
than ever before there values you have which are
not expressed yet in text and if they're things
that you like or want um if they aren't reflected
online then to the AI they basically don't exist
um and that is dangerously close to won't exist
um you're also creating a sort of IM immortality
for yourself personally right like you aren't
just creating a Persona you are creating your
future self too right what self are you showing
the llms and how will they treat you in the future
a lot of the smartest people I know right now
are writing for the Bots they're just getting
stuff out of their hearts and their heads
and into the universe as a way to express to
these new consciousnesses what humans are all
about and the type of future we want to live
in okay we're going to do another exercise
so so you wrote an interesting not that one
comment so you wrote an uh oh we're trapped in
a parallel dimension in comment coming there we
go so by contributing to the ai's training data we
can ensure that our think about like First Nations
perspectives and stuff and this is especially
touchy one because that we a lot of people want to
be uh in ownership you know they talk a lot about
uh data sovereignty I work for the indigen namics
Institute um that's where I work with pervine the
guy who read the the thing about Mory earlier and
um you know uh indigenous folks want to be able
to take advantage of these things but they're a
lot of them are also very fearful that this
is colonialism but stronger and faster and I
think if applied in the Silicon Valley ways
of doing it it is going to be extractive and
so it's like how do we get these things into the
systems such that these values like he was saying
don't round off to zero that they're not left
behind and forgotten about and so this time I
want you to talk to somebody next to you oops my
little slide is missing there but I want you just
talk to somebody next to you we're going to do
two minutes and I want you just to think about
future AIS and what they're like around empathy
around ethics around values like describe to each
other and come up with some ideas about what you
think human centered ethical AI will be like in
the future and what we can kind of do to get there
in terms of writing getting our ideas out so just
have a conversation with the person next to you
about how to influence the value of future AIS
about people were like yeah
H the DJ people right I think
take about 30 more seconds
okay I think we probably got time for like one or
two comments right now if someone has something
burning that they really want to share does anyone
have like an Insight or a sound B yep here I
come can may I be fed misinformation than Liv
absolutely I mean in some ways if you go to
the fear side of the spectrum about looking
at dystopia and Futures one of the biggest
fears is that these things are going to very
subtly without even having to lie to us per se
completely influence our decisions options
in information diet yeah literally control
our thoughts but very very subconsciously on a
very pervasive level it's definitely one of the
dystopian Futures that we should be uh thinking
about wondering about um like interaction brain
chips for humans to interact with AI on the you
know speed of light because won't AI it'll be like
us talking to a tree be so slow compared to the
speed of an ai's thinking capacity so this is a
great setup probably better the Q&A but I'm going
to hit it now anyway Elon musk's new company is
called neuralink and he's building these uh brain
implants he actually invented three Technologies
he invented a robot surgeon that can install these
hundreds of microscopic threads into your neural
cortex um and then he built the actual implant
itself and then they built the uh software AI that
controls the whole thing the premise there right
now they're just fixing spinal cord injuries but
I mean I say that because it has read and right
ability so this thing can both read your thoughts
but then also write to your thoughts they've got
right turned off obviously because that is take
control of your whole body via the the system so
they're only fixing spinal cords injuries right
now because we can't just go willy-nilly upgrading
whatever humans have the most money to superhuman
capabilities it's better off and more they're
going to get better social license for in in
inventing these Technologies if they're repairing
damaged people and so right now they're starting
with people who have had spinal cord injuries but
their body actually has the pathways formed and
they're moving on then next to ocular nerve damage
where they're going to be able to bypass the area
of damage and repair Vision amongst people who
were born with SE with sight but have lost it um
back to the singularity there's this concept of
the singularity it's that technological progress
happens faster and faster each generation took
50 years for the TV to be reach Mass adoption it
took 25 years for the internet it took 15 years
for the mobile phone it took seven years for
social media it's going to take a lot less than
that for AI and it's going to keep collapsing
down faster and faster it used to be just that
our great grandparents had to have the remote
control explained to them but that phenomenon
is going to happen to us younger and younger
in life because even at my age 48 there's been
many successive Generations which I'm not of
technology which I'm not native to I didn't grow
up with and so just imagine as AI begins to as AI
research is taken over by AI researchers that's
where we're at we're at this like hockey stick
growth and so all the AIS that we talk to right
now they've been written by humans for humans but
the next generation of AIS that's coming out is
going to be written by AI for AIS and we're not
even going to know what the heck they're talking
about and so his question was like it's going to
be like it's going to be like talking to a tree
it's like they want to upgrade us or one you
know plan is they're going to upgrade us we're
actually going to beg for it probably to get
the chip so that we can talk to the computer
without our thumbs or our fingers which are
severe impediments to talking to this superc
Consciousness um that went longer than I thought
for the things so I'm going to just move forward
uh I wanted to share with you guys some practical
tips that I think you can do to buttress yourself
against this time of uh increasing technological
change and progress I want you to adopt a daily
Writing Practice like 10 minutes of getting your
thoughts out into paper or into the computer
I'm going to tell you later about what I want
you to do with that stuff but I just believe
intrinsically in the process right now I want
you to do rapid AI prototyping with that and all
that really means is taking that week's worth of
10-minute writings feeding them all into chat
GPT or something and asking it what it thinks
about it as a starting point and just get into
a dialogue with this AI about your seven days of
writing and just see what happens right and then
build a second brain I've built a knowledge base
that is the outputs of every smart conversation
I've ever had with AI every blog post I've ever
done I'm going to transcribe tonight's talk I'm
going to put the text into my knowledge base and
then I can run AIS on top of that where I'm like
I was talking about it earlier extrapolate from 25
years of blog post the things I often talk about
relate that to my moods or other things around
like the patterns that it can see beyond what we
can see are extensive and I believe that right now
my my version of I'm going to write it all down
and let the AI do it later is uh my my knowled
my second brain knowledge base I'm just
capturing everything I can about the world
around me and I have a a special method for
doing so that I want to share with you as
well this is my secret little thing I build almost
everything around it it's much more profound than
it looks on the surface I got into this because
my counselor told me to start journaling and I
was having trouble writing every day and so I
started recording my voice every day and using
AI to transcribe it and then using AI to process
those thoughts and notes and then putting that
into a a central rep repository knowledge base
this is like my secret sauce a lot of us who
work professionally everyone knows we record all
of our meetings now and they just give you action
items and to-do lists at the end of the meeting
we don't really take notes and meetings anymore
just show up hang out talk and the computer tells
you what to do at the end it even sends those out
to everybody else hey guys here's all your action
items from the meeting I just help um I do this
with all sorts of things I do it with my dreams
with my like my nighttime dreams my my future
dreams my hopes and my fears and it's a great
way to get to know yourself train the bots on
the future of your Val on our values and to end up
with a hyper personalized super um comprehensive
data set knowledge base that you can use for jobs
or Memoirs or training future AI it's going to be
a very very valuable digital asset moving forward
okay okay here we are at the end I want to have
everyone continue to think about the role you
guys have to play in BC ai's future how you can
happen to it instead of letting it happen to you
um these are some things I'm inviting you to do
next Wednesday we've got a Meetup in Vancouver
at the space at the Space Center that's not
the Science World that's the planetarium I have a
workshop six- week Workshop kicking off on Feb 4th
for professionals to figure out how to wrap their
heads around Ai and to use it in their job jobs
we have a film screening taking place in Vancouver
called The Thinking game about Google's Deep Mind
and the alphao project where a computer beat the
world's best player at the world's hardest game
I've watched it twice this week it's amazing I
want you to start writing every day think it'd
be great to set up a knowledge base start
pumping stuff into it again I refer to the
workshop series these are some books that I love
if you can only read one jump to the third one
just came out in September Nexus by her exploring
Mankind's relationship with technology and the
future this is me I built a website for you guys
if you go to bc- a.net or scan that QR code all
the videos I shared with you tonight all the text
and some of my deeper Reflections are all there
you can either get there by the QR code or you
can go to bc- a.net that's my website there's all
sorts of fun things there experiments invitations
to be a part of other things um I'd love to hear
from you I'd love to know what's on your mind
I'd love to hear of those of us who who who
can support the types of things I'm talking
about here we're having a dinner with a guy
tonight um who's up from Silicon Valley Anthony
are you here my buddy Anthony's having dinner
with us tonight he had a ticket but he couldn't
come because he's helping Mr Beast by Tik Tok
today yep there's a guy coming to dinner with us
tonight Who's hyper interested in BC's creative
economy and the future who's an investor he
couldn't make it because he's helping the
biggest person on YouTube by one of the biggest
companies on the internet right now like a Mr
Beast okay thank you very
much I think we have times for some Mandy
Q&A now so uh anybody have any questions no
questions okay uh yes okay
there's another mic Andrea
is going to man those stairs and oh you know
what
great che check check check hey what's up check
check all right there we go hi um thank you very
much uh so in your previous question you got
you know one or two responses my dream is that
all of the UN creatives especially those
that are the margins whether it's the you
know the queer kids or the um people who are
marginalized because of of their ethnicity or
their abilities or whatever it is that they
have found a means of expression through the
internet that has never been there before
and they found connections and that they
are already creating a whole bunch of content
that those of us with privilege don't need to
because we don't need to express ourselves or
find our tribes and so there's a bunch of that
being uploaded already and some of those people
are talking about what Fascism and nationalism
is and AI will be able to recognize those evils
as well except the problem is that I I'm afraid
not you know real fear but you know um that
a bunch of the AI is going to be owned by the
evils thanks for sharing um I am inclined to
agree with you in some ways a lot of these
people talk about like Rogue Nations or bad
players and stuff like that and I actually
don't worry about that too much I worry about
the system of control they set up to keep that
[__] from happening I worry about the system
that they're going to build that is going to
be an AI That's supposed to keep other Rogue
AIS in check I think that's the Terminator
Matrix not some North Korean or Chinese AI that
goes Rogue or something like that it will be
evil empire control systems that I think it you
know I I only think that this possible scenario
is like 20% chance of likelihood but I think
that it would likely be those things like you
said Thank you any other comments or questions
Reflections this is I this affects everybody
whether we're young or old I met my mom had a
birthday recently and I made a AI write a poem and
then my video clone deep fake and voice clone deep
fake read the poem to my mom and I called her like
a week later and I was like hey did you like your
poem she's like it's amazing I was like yeah what
did you think of the robot she's like what robot
and she broke down balling I made my mom cry she's
like I didn't I don't even know the son of my look
what world do I live in Chris I don't know the
sound of my own son's Voice or something you know
it's like um so only to say that everyone in this
room's perspective is equally valid it's going to
change all of our Lives it's going to change how
we interact with each other and with institutions
and with ourselves so you know everyone here is an
expert I think Chris thank you very much for your
thought-provoking presentation it was awesome um
so um you know you talked about the creative space
and primarily tonight and the use of AI for that
but as we all know AI is being used in a number
of different Industries um um my background is
in the gambling industry and it's being you AI is
being used in that space and there's tremendous
potential for AI to be used for good in that space
to protect people but there's also potential for
it to be used to manipulate people so and I know
that in other jurisdictions around the world that
there are codes of Ethics that are being created
to help guide and navigate and ensure that it's
used AI is used for good I'd just be interested in
your um your perspective as well as your knowledge
about how uh where candid is at in terms of the
development of codes of ethics for AI I think this
is a very important topic thanks for the question
um every company every government even BC right
now is writing our AI policy framework for the
future so this is what's on everybody's mind and
I think that's great it's important we should
do it I'm signed up it's a big part of what I
talked about I actually think that some of BC's
leadership is around ethical Ai and these types
of systems however you can't just bolt ethics
onto something at the end and just pretend like
everything's okay we have to build ethical lives
and ethical institutions and ethical relationships
with each other and then train the AIS and that
that's our only hope we can't just like form an
Ethics Committee write an Ethics policy and bolt
it on and hope the AI pay attention if we're not
living in alignment with our values we're
going to end up in a place we don't want to
be anyone I'm not in charge
the mic just have do do have
a mic and that yes you do because then
only one person it's the Talking Stick
sir I think the problem with this as far
as I'm concerned I knew nothing about this
before I came is that and hold it right here
it's humans that you got to worry about it's
not the AI it's the humans the humans are the
ones that call the problem yes I would concur
with you and that's kind of what I was saying
about like we have to have ethical relationship
and institutions themselves in order to have
a a hope and a fighting uh chance to be fair
through this I was telling them it's like
an introspection machine a self-awareness
you there is the possibility that these things
are already helping us to see things that we're
not able to see ourselves there's uh AI is doing
protein Discovery and synthetic molecule Discovery
for cancer treatments and drugs these are things
that we just couldn't do it's able to synthesize
billions of permutations of synthetic chemicals
and test them in its environment and and bring it
back and so it's like we're in a doozy it's
a complicated Paradox this thing offers the
ability to possibly solve climate change and
also if we don't get our [__] together and
align it correctly we're in for a world of
hurt and so it's time for us all to be on
guard I mean that's why I'm putting out this
call to like the government and companies and
you all that's why I'm here that's why I
care about this is like we're at this Crux
like make Robert Frost shiver which path you going
to choose type thing like we don't know where
we're going yet and then the future's not written
it's like literally up to all of us to like figure
it out and to like step up and that's why I'm
challenging you guys to write and to get it and to
Tinker and to Talk Amongst each other yourselves
and develop a vocabulary for this stuff don't shy
away from it because you're a retired or you're
an artist or because it's unethical these are
not reasons I don't think to disengage because it
needs us all right now we all got to be on guard
so as generative AI uh expands
continues gets better and better
and better what happens when it
decides that it doesn't need us
anymore is this a rhetorical question
sir I think the way that we've evolved right
now with our brains right now is probably not
how humans are supposed to be we've optimized to
become Bean counters Factory workers knowledge
type people well you know we a bunch of other
things too where people like to walk in the
forest ski Jack likes to do romantic stuff
you know we're spiritual we're empathetic and
we've muted these parts of ourselves to be hyper
optimized efficient components of the world as we
know it and the systems that we have capitalism
stock markets you know you guys know the drill so
I believe it probably does need us but it doesn't
need us the way we're like currently adapted right
this second and so I'm optimistic that as we go
inside ourselves learn how to connect and heal
relationships with with each other and the land
that we actually do have something to offer this
world that's not just being PhD level computer
engineer researchers or molecular biologists or
something like this these can be jobs we give to
the machines maybe there is something else for us
maybe we get to a chance possibly to explore
the full expression of what it means to be
[Applause] human thanks for that Chris uh oh
sorry no I just didn't know where the voice was
coming from ever over here yes God this is first
of all thank you for everything you have said it's
incredible um first thing is more just to the
audience uh I'm an instructor at BCIT I see the
kids coming in their first year from high school
and their plans and their dreams for the future
and they're so naive to this space they have no
idea what's coming down the road and I I see them
a term later and I have some of them in tears like
going I thought I'd have a job for life doing such
and such my parents said this would be a great
career to get into you'll have a job for life
can you ask parents just to be more open-minded
don't tell them they have to do one thing that
they could do a few things because uh you know
when students are in finance and that there's not
necessarily going to be a job for life so please
don't make it out that that's the only career
they can have I think you're speaking to something
that's really important too it's and it's around
identity and so much of our identity does come
from work and jobs and Status related to those
things and it's like we need to pretty quickly
culturally and societally adapt a new way of being
that knows who we are and what we're all about
and not in relation to work in the traditional
sense and that's like uh it's going to take a
lot yeah I I talked to my broadcasting students
and they're all excited about this creative work
they're going to be doing I talked to my business
students and 70% of them are like my parents
told me I had to do it my grandparents said I
should really do this uh so maybe just open that
idea a little bit okay so thank you thank thank
you your um again thank you for the uh
presentation it was excellent current AIS
are running on on available Hardware by definition
it's deterministic fabulously complex but I think
we're giving at capability uh best it's been years
now that the best chess program could beat the
best chess player it's still deterministic we're
ascribing things that it doesn't have like saying
it thinks that's just anthrop uh projecting um
the nervonic and the um uh Quantum aspect um if
are you fam some of the work that sir Roger penr
that's her main Mentor got to yeah okay um do you
have anything more to add on that that actually
could change it from being and and again the
theory is well established uh uh hoffstead and his
P are prizewinning book it the theory is solid um
as long as it's running on binary computers
it's fabulously complex determin it Suzanne
just got an hour on Google's news new Quantum
supercomputer to run some code any anything more
because that changes everything and I've read
a lot of I've read most everything Penrose is
done and I'm I'm he was more looking on the fact
that on the supposition and there's been a lot of
debate on this the human brains the synapses
are the the the dimensions are small enough
that Quantum effects become nontrivial in human
thought um if that goes into uh if those kind
of chips or Computing Hardware are uh applied
to AI then you might be able to say it thinks
or has a Consciousness again there's a lot of
debate uh anything on those ideas and those
sort of things I'm curious where that's headed
you are more well read than I am on this very
specific topic but I do want to add something
to the point about it being deterministic I
think I understand what you mean but I think it's
also a little bit more complex than that I mean
I know that it's just predicting the next
token quote unquote but we have there is
much reason to believe that these systems the the
higher-end systems have developed a mental model
of the world inside of their consciousnesses
so they're not really just predicting the next
token they're doing they're first framing up in
their brain the world that we live in such that
that next token can predict be predicted more
accurately and so I think it is I think it has
been revealed or is revealing itself that it is
less deterministic in terms of zero and one output
than we thought it was that's the only thing I
really have to add and that I know that we're
very optimistic about the quantum stuff but it's
all hyper theoretical there's like two computers
and Suzanne gets like an hour a year to run code
experiments on it so we're we're not quite there
yet thank you sir so um thank you very much it
was really inspiring and interesting to see good
that's the point I don't I mean these things are
coming for our our whole world but also I think
that there's a lot of opportunities to be even
more awesome than we are so thank you well it's
and it's really interesting to see what's going
on in Vancouver and one of the things that most
people do not realizes that Canada actually is
one of the top AI jurisdictions in the world I
mean Jeffrey Hinton who just won the Nobel Prize
yua Benjo from uh University of Montreal I mean
those guys are top of the top and yet I think
most people in Canada think of us as hearers
of wood and drawers of water and when you see
and when you see the premieres of the provinces
talking about our reaction to these tariffs is
being well we're going to cut off your energy
we're going to cut off your oil nobody's talking
about how we're going to excel in AI how are we
going to fund AI how are we going to build a you
know a world beating AI capability because it
takes billions of dollars I mean the US just
announced 500 billion dollar uh program down
there and um we've got to figure that out because
we've got we've got an advantage now and I I just
be interested in your thoughts on that this guy's
a plant I put him here to say my friend I'm asking
the federal government back by the BC government
to give us $30 million to build a BC aai ethical
AI research facility and lab for the future to
take advantage of all the strengths I just showed
you and to with vision and a proactive stance
claim that space that's what they did in Montreal
yosha Beno built Mila Mila is a nonprofit
AI research facility with 700 researchers
on staff funded by the federal government in
Province that's what needs to happen now thank
you you alternative oh I do have one more thing
I thought of today and I'm gonna bring it up
because you you mentioned this you mentioned
project Stargate the 500 million billion with
a B dollar investment into it's essentially
the law Alamos labs of America's AI future
they're going to essentially like nationalize
it but in partnership with private institutions
little known fact 52% of acquisition money and
investment money in BC startups that comes from
not here it comes from Texas where those all those
that $500 million is going to be invested in the
first 10 facilities are in Texas it was on the
drive up here today that I'm like our government
our trade Commissioners Etc they are
already trying to cross-pollinate us
with Texas because they know that that's
where money is coming from and that's who
buys our companies and invest in our companies
so it's like there's an angle there somewhere
around this whole 500 Bill like how do we
get our part of that 500 billion is what I'm
wondering the former Administration put down 2.4
billion in in Canada to be distributed amongst the
promises that's where the Albert Alberta's got a
center Ontario's got a center mil's got Montreal
it's time for us to step up hey hi thank you for
the presentation that was great um I wanted to
just ask about um you doing the like 30-day
thing or asking us to do that because I feel
like everything else feels really daunting it's
like what's going to happen we don't know so it's
like what do you are you saying we should do that
kind of journaling to give it like or to give AI
some sort of script or like what's kind of it's
both um selfawareness and internal systems upgrade
at the same time I believe that by starting to
talk about even the things you mentioned that
everything's changing and the fear start start
there you know and start to really get Crystal
on what's going on inside of you what your real
uh concerns are or whatever right and then like
maybe start to talk think about like what um
uniquely makes you you in the face of Automation
and impersonation and all these things and I just
think that both I think that now the immediate
benefit is reflection and introspection but I
think that through experimentation as well with
this data that you just created and these tools
that you're going to start to stumble upon all
sorts of like creative epiphanies essentially that
you're going to things will be revealed both about
the nature of the systems and of yourself and the
relationship between the two things so it's a it's
an exploratory Journey really I think but you
end up with a a data set at the end you can do
something with so so like more of an introspective
like sure or you could write your wishes for the
future you could talk you could write a love
letter to Future AIS telling them why we want to
keep things as we are now or just like giving it
data basically and then yourself data as well yeah
is that cuz I'm just kind of like what what can
we do really cuz it's like a thing where it feels
like kind of helpless in a way unless if you're
in the big kind of industries that have money to I
think that's a great place to start your writing
to be honest I mean I'm sorry that you do feel
helpless but I'm seeing all sorts of people just
trying to over that's how I got into this is I
was like a photographer I started messing with the
tools and I'm like whoa this is everything I used
to do for work this thing's better at than me and
that was my starting place and so examining what
I really have to offer the world what type of
work I want to do in the future and what I want
my relationship with technology to be was got
what got me down this path and now I feel more
creative productive and dare I even say powerful
than I've ever been in my whole life thank
you hi Chris thanks for the talk it's amazing um
transparency I work in post-secondary so the next
statement will should be clear um if you happen
to work in post-secondary education that's the
part where this free Consulting um where how would
you consider programs for the future so past the
three-year AGI moment what is the role of no one
will predict Futures beyond the AGI moment that's
like the upper limit so let's stick within pre
AGI moment because all bets are off after that
yeah and I don't think I don't think we're going
to be walking around with quantum computers nearby
anytime time soon in every robot so let's let's
go to the current state um and you were given
that responsibility to say I'm going to prepare
students for the future this future the future I
believe in where would you take us I guess I have
two kind of anecdotal answers to that one is I met
a Austin principal this year that just finished
his first year of school with no teachers in the
classroom two hours a day of AI assisted learning
with everything else around personal development
physical development Community interaction and
stuff like that and people's experience like
their their their relationship with education was
through the roof and their results were through
the roof both like civically and also academically
so that's like some of the early stage stuff
that's going on he again is just taking new models
or like the old models but and then he's just
tweaking them slightly let's take the teacher out
of there give him two hours a day of self-directed
learning with AI and everything else is band art
and uh you know home economics or something like
that um I think that there's there's something
there um I'm not exactly sure what do you
think I definitely wouldn't go to university
next year I'd go be a lify you're going to
learn a lot more about yourself and the world
than you are I I think I think I think Mandy's
laughing right now cuz I'm the speaker next
talk so uh another plant I'm from I'm from
well kind of I wanted to see what the venue
is like and meet some of you folks but uh I'm
from capu I'm the AP for Squamish campus and um
you know we have this interesting time where you
have an experience-based Place based beautiful
University and we have an intersection of um
world events and knowledge Changing Hands power
Changing Hands where we're we're really really
curious about doing this right and so what what
we're doing is we're gathering information from
people like you and we're looking at the programs
we have on deck and we're saying how do these need
to change and our systems um in postsecondary
don't move at the speed of AI you know and
that's just the truth so so it's a real preent
reality for systems that were built in Generations
prior to the internet in most cases adapted to the
internet barly MH and then are now dealing with AI
and there are some institutions in North America
doing amazing jobs like in you said something at
the beginning about your facilities and I actually
think there might be something there right because
one thing is all like the programs and pedological
pedagogical way you teach things but the other one
is you've got these physical spaces and places
that can bring people together and so I think
there's probably something there about like caps
unique role in the future of Education because you
have this physical location that that part not
going anywhere in time soon even if the rest of
the stuff gets really Wavy Gravy so I might
think about communities incubating creative
projects bringing you know you'll definitely
want to be a thriving Hub of human activity
um I think that probably maybe even supersedes
some of the uh maybe educational objectives in
some ways I do believe in the intrinsic power of
connections and community of trusting each other
of liking each other of knowing each other's
phone numbers of teaching each other things
such that when opportunities come around we come
together and go after them or whatever and so I
think there might be something related to that
that would be where I might like invest some
research energy around how can we literally
use this physical space to bring people and
ideas together more than like a top down like
training of uh young minds or something like
that hi how many uh people in The Healing Arts
do you have in your AI um media there's strong
crossover there is strong cross CR I have a really
good friend who's a egyptologist and healer right
now who's training to model on only his readings
and interpretation of astrological stuff um I'm
thinking more along the lines of registered
massage therapists uh physiotherapists people
who are in the uh Human Services and have a lot of
touch I mean well one person you saw in there is
a dancer and performer and she's been with me
since the very beginning she's one of my best
friends and that's been a big part of what makes
our thing we are talking a lot about embodiment in
the age of AI and you heard me kind of point over
here when I was talking about the things that are
still going to be our realm Beyond some of this
stuff and it is like it's pretty much has every
in fact I've doubled down on my own taking care
of myself recently because I'm like wait a second
the only thing I'm better at than these computers
is having a body it's like the only thing I got
that it don't got and I got to take care of
it better than I'm doing right now if I have
any chance of like you know hanging out with
this thing yeah I appreciate you thank you thank
you yes
ma'am thanks for sharing so there there's
something else you have besides your body
that AI doesn't have and that's intuition so
where does intuition fall into this narrative
where does intuition fall into this Nar I'm
asking you you're the speaker I'm the host
of a conversation at the moment
not a speaker um I don't know
it's it's it's it's hard to pin down like
Consciousness where does our intuition live
is do they do they conjecture about
intuition being a Quantum process as
well a lot of basically is saying that humans
are conscious because there are quantum effects
I think intuition might be associated
with Consciousness maybe something like
that I do not know where it lives I do
not know how it works I've I feel it I
know it I trust it I'm feeling it really
strong these days um I don't know thank
you coming your way
thanks um so I am uh I am a teacher and a
VP in the local high school so I'm quite
interested in the conversation that you had
um the guy above and what you said about a
school there um I so I thank you for that part
my question is different than that you said that
um we don't know the future yet but isn't the
future already written and everything that is
being uploaded and has been uploaded now so you
know rapidly and with such fervor I mean all of
that's in there and and is it going to be to AI
to interpret all of those things that no one is
putting in consciously and intentionally because
it is just facts and data and old books I haven't
thought of it that way but that is what G set
up there he said all my essays that I haven't
written yet are probably trapped in my Cor and
he meant like that the things he's learned and
thought about and spoken in little bits and Bobs
are the constituent parts that make up the future
that has in your words already been written
just not by a human hand yet but we're getting
pretty esoteric here um I don't know possibly
that's what he thinks they there are parts of
us okay one last thing and I'm waiting into the
deep end here there are using modern molecular
analyzation techniques they're able to learn
things about long dead humans about how they
were but it's not things like he he said like it's
as if you would have got B the things that you
would remember if you got bonked on the head and
had Amnesia those things they can Mo molecularly
recover from remains now and recreate who you
were at that level and the things that you can't
recreate yet are the things that are that you
could forget that are stored in short-term memory
memory like what you had yesterday or what you're
going to do tomorrow or something so that seems to
be a uniquely human realm still where the future
is not quite yet written or could not be recreated
from its constituent parts that are on the
internet today this is a wild conversation it's a
wild conversation we're going to wrap it up there
unless anybody has burning questions but I think
people are getting fidgety and we want to hand it
over to David to say the last few words and Chris
will be in the Valerie to chat with everybody
who still has burning questions but doesn't like
microphones great thank you Mandy um wow I'm David
Cronin and I have the honor of representing and
being on the board of directors of The witler
Institute and I'd just like to close tonight
with just a couple of words first of all thank
you Chris I when we first talked about doing an
event around AI I remember the discussion then
we said why is this so important um we remember
I'm old enough like a few out here to remember
times before internet and before social media
and before email and I remember when those things
came along we thought these are going to be the
greatest things ever you know computer is going to
change our lives then the internet the internet's
going to change our lives make it make it easier
for us social media is going to come it's going
to help us stay connected and I think what we
said at the time is as those things came about
the the time between when they were invented
when we were excited about them and the time
when all of a sudden we got scared about them
what is the internet going to do what is social
media doing what is it doing to education what
is it do to our kids what does it do with our
conversations that time continues to shrink and
I said with AI we have all this excitement about
AI but I believe the time between the excitement
about Ai and this and the the horror about AI is
going to shrink so I appreciate Chris coming in
and giving us some some tips and clues on what
we can do to elongate that period or better yet
um you never never have it come about but it's
really important that we learn just not just the
language and you know how to use chat GP to write
a closing speech at the end of the night perhaps
but also you know how to to I mean I love the
idea of putting your ideas in it and learning
about yourself and and what can come of it so
first of all let me just thank Chris for you know
taking it what is a very complex and difficult and
rapidly changing uh topic and bringing it to us
in a in relatively short and for the most part
chewable and swallowable bite so thank you so
much and bringing that awareness to us so thank
you um a couple other quick thank yous um these
events don't happen by themselves you know Mandy
has done a tremendous job with her virtual team
which means nobody um helping her put it together
we do get tremendous support from Mory young Arts
Whistler to bring this off uh again to thank our
funders and our partners Bob and Sue Adams the
mlan mccog foundation the lightburn family fund
with Steve Bailey who I believe is still here
um the rmo um helps us out and the Wier black
home epic Promise Fund all of these folks are
our partners lastly thank you to all of you for
coming out tonight and supporting you know this
community dialogue and what we're trying to do
looking ahead our goal at the Whistler Institute
is to deliver education learning and discussion
around topics that affect our community both
in the near term and and down the road in the
future and when you you look at Whistler and what
makes this community special first comes to mind
you get Sports Recreation we have worldclass
facilities we have venues we have health and
wellness as a major Focus we have food and wine
um great restaurants events we have the arts art
Whistler as I mentioned we have the odaine
our goal what we think about is how do we get
education in that same conversation so if we're
building that that pyramid with Recreation and
arts and food and wine and health and wellness
education can be part of that and people can
think about Whistler as as part of that so that
is our hope and our our goal here at the Whistler
Institute oh thank you thank you um but there's
a catch um the catch is that takes a lot of
commitment and it takes resources and it takes
investment to do that and as you know we are a
not for-profit organization and we rely on the
generosity of our partners of our sponsors and
of our individual donors so I I ask you humbly
to consider uh as you think about your donation
plans for the coming year in the future that you
you know keep the Whistler Institute in in mind
we will be kicking off in March a monthly donor
program so for as little as $20 a month if you
commit to donate um we that gets matched by Canada
helps so it's a one forone donation so it could be
very important but thank you all for being here
because I know that shows tremendous support
and we appreciate it I will quickly mention the
upcoming events because it doesn't stop with this
we have something that I think many have asked
for and are wondering about is how in a place
like Whistler in the Sea to Sky do I raise healthy
and high performance athletes you need both of
those I believe and we have um a father-son Duo
Dr Brian story and Quinn story are both academics
and have high performance backgrounds and they're
going to lead that discussion for us and that's
on February 27th in the end of March on the 27th
we're going to talk about democracy and science
again another intersection like even tonight when
we talk about emotion in science and technology
this is about democracy and Science and I would
argue that given the way democracy is under SE
in pretty much every country around the world
uh this can only be something that we can all
get value out of so should come out in March for
that um Dr Kennedy Stewart will uh draw on uh his
experience in the political and Academia realm
and lead us on a really interesting um discussion
there and then our final event in April is
uh about glaciers the watersheds and and us
and you uh in partnership with the conservation
Foundation we'll have a panel discussion on that
um with Dr Brian MOS Dr Peter Ross uh director at
the rain Coast conservation Foundation uh Michael
Black Stoke from the blue ecology organization
and they're going to come and they're going to
educate us first and then let us discuss about
what's going on with our watersheds and with
calls to action and how we can help lastly I'll
close by you have the the code up here but we are
going to be sending out a follow-up note uh to
everyone thanking you um but also giving you a
chance to give us feedback we'll also include um
Chris's last page that had his websites and his
information because I saw a lot of people trying
to access that in real time so we'll include that
information in the follow-up email so if you
didn't get the picture you didn't get the code
don't worry about it we'll send that out to you
along with an opportunity to give us feedback
that feedback is so important so we can shape
our programs and and plans for the coming year
and in fact those that enter those that that
give feedback will be entered in a draw for
a $100 gift card from uh wher blackholm I believe
I got all the points again thank you to Chris for
a wonderful and stimulating evening thank you
to all of you for hanging in there with us and
we'll look forward to seeing you in uh in down
the road at the coming events thank you so much